hi everybody its Karen and I'm here
today to share with you a quick little
tutorial on how to make these really
great beads out of paper so let's talk
about what we're going to need for this
particular project I'm working with this
beautiful piece of paper this is from
the Echo Park styled essentials upscale
collection you're also going to need a
little something to roll with so you can
use a toothpick or a piece of copper
wire would be fine even the inside of a
pen would work just something with a
small diameter that you can be able to
roll around you're going to need a ruler
and a pen you're going to need an
adhesive modge podge works great or
watered down a white glue this happens
to be some ultra thick embossing powder
and then we also need some embossing ink
for this technique okay so let's get
going what I've got here we're going to
just be making these little half-inch
round beads and basically you can create
all sorts of different bead shapes with
this same technique but I'm just going
to show you how to make these little
buns so I'm just taking my ruler here
and just on the edge of a 12 by 12 sheet
of paper I'm just marking every half an
inch this is going to be basically the
length of my beads so I'm just going to
do that on one end and on the other end
what I'm going to do is to create a
triangular shape I'm actually going to
start at the quarter inch mark and then
from there go every half an inch what
this is going to do is just give me a
midpoint to the other end of the paper
so that I can just draw some triangular
shapes here across the length of this
piece of paper so now what I'm going to
do is I'm going to go to my first half
inch mark on this side and I'm going to
match it up with that half inch mark
that was started over here one quarter
of an inch in so there we go now I'm
just going to move the bottom of my
ruler over to the next mark so I kept it
same place at the top and move the
bottom now I'm going to keep it at the
same place on the bottom and move the
top just so that I use up all of my
paper and get these alternating
triangular shapes let's see if I can
hold it up here I'm not sure you're
going to be able to see it on this color
of paper but there are basically some
triangular shapes there on my paper and
now all I'm going to do is I'm going to
go ahead and I'm going to cut those
triangular shapes and then I'll show you
the next step
okay so the next step this is kind of
the fun step is to do the rolling this
is actually going to form your paper
bead shape so you just take your
triangular piece of paper that you've
created or cut out and around a piece of
copper wire or a toothpick or the inside
of a pen the part that holds the ink
just basically start rolling up your
paper you want it to be really tight so
through kind of I've got just holding
the top edge my fingers here and that
keeps it nice and tight as I'm rolling
it up you just keep going just make sure
that your paper is nice and straight so
that it evenly rolls just because it's
tapered and you want it to be even on
both sides but again if you make a
mistake don't worry about it just unroll
it and try again
we haven't glued anything down yet once
you're about three inches from the edge
just open up your adhesive and just
using your finger or paintbrush or
something like that just apply a nice
thin even coat to the edge here and then
go back and just continue rolling up
make sure you don't put too much
adhesive on otherwise it'll squeeze out
the sides
but you do want to make sure you get
nice even coverage and there we go there
we've got our bead shape I'll just add
the rest of this adhesive just to the
edge here to make sure it stays down but
basically our bead shape is now all
completed now I'm going to show you how
to finish up so make them nice and
glossy the last step is actually totally
optional you already have your paper
bead shape but one of the things I like
to do is make it a little bit classy so
I'm just taking some ultra thick
embossing powder and some embossing ink
to apply just a nice little shiny layer
over the top of my bead so all I'm doing
is I've got it on a toothpick here and
I'm just going to roll it into the
embossing ink making sure I get all the
little edges all the tapered sides of my
bead and then I'm just going to open up
my embossing powder and I'm just going
to dip it right into the embossing
powder just like that's really easy then
take your heat gun and slowly while
you're heating this up what we're going
to do is I'm just going to turn the bead
on the toothpick as I'm heating it up
and the reason for that is simply that
if you heat up your embossing powder on
your bead without turning it it will
actually start to drip off of the sides
and you won't get a very even
to the shiny coating of your beads so if
you rotate it and do this really slowly
then you get a nice even Sheen on the
edge of the bead there so we'll just go
like this
now I like a really thick layer so while
this is still wet I'm just going to go
back in and dip it back into the
embossing powder and then I'm just going
to heat up my second layer now again be
really careful that you're rotating it
here you have quite a thick coating of
the embossing powder on here now so you
don't want it to get that drippy look as
you're working with it so keep rotating
it slowly now there's all sorts of other
ways that you could do this as well you
can use some glossy accents and just
kind of paint that on some Mod Podge
some the glossy modge podge and all of
those techniques work equally well the
reason I like this one is because soon
as I turn off this heat gun and wait
just a few seconds it's going to be dry
and I can handle it and work on my
project I tend to be a little bit
impatient so I just like the quick
drying aspect of this technique to make
it a little bit glossy so there you go
you can see I'm just rotating it a
little bit more just as it dries here if
you only put one layer on you don't have
to wait quite this long till it dries it
will go a lot quicker if you have just
one thin layer so I'm just going to kind
of pop it off now whoops there goes just
move this out of the way and you can see
it's already dry and I already have this
beautiful glossy bead that I can work
with on a craft project so I hope you
found some inspiration for this project
today and use some beautiful Echo Park
paper to make some beads for
embellishments on cards or layouts or
even a necklace or bracelet or purse
like on me today thanks for stopping by